---
layout: post
---  

Launches should be boring.

One of the nice things about the software development process at Reading Eggs is the fact that we had the most abso-fucking-lutly boring launches. In the 2+ years I was there we launched [Mathseeds](http://mathseeds.com), [WordFlyers](http://wordflyers.com.au) and had plenty of major features launched in between. Most of the time, someone flips a feature switch, we email customers about the new thing and everyone goes home on time. Then we have BBQ and beer in the park the next day. The one time I had to leave work late on launch day was when Delayed Job choked when we tried to tell everyone about the launch (hint: don't use DJ to send high volume emails).

Sure we had plenty of pre launch problems. Bugs, delays, arguments over how things should be done[1] etc. But customers don't get to see any of that so I don't really give a flying fuck as long as customers get the best experience by the time they see the product. By the time we get to launch, we've

- Assigned competent developers to work on it,
- Had it reviewed at least once by other competent developers,
- Sent it out to other parts of the business (editorial, marketing) for review
- Wrote up a test plan and sent it out to an external QA service for testing

All of which wouldn't matter if we didn't have a great team leader who's sold the business on flexible launch dates and giving customers the best experience at launch.

[1]: Apple and Pixar make it look easy but working with diverse, cross disciplinary teams is pretty hard work.